# Cybersecurity-Current-Event-Report

Topics: Iranian Hackers Target Albania's Border Control System in a Tit-for-Tat Operation/ New APT targets telcos, ISP's and universities in the Middle East and Africa

    Iranian Hackers Target Albania's Border Control System in a Tit-for-Tat Operation

The recent attacks on Albania's BCS was a ransomware and wiper malware attack that exfiltrated data and probed victim infrastructure. The attack involved many attackers working together in order to compromise and gain control of the targeted systems. In doing so the attackers were able to encrypt and destroy data along with other information operations. Perpatrators or state-sponsored threat actors; viz, DEV-0861, 0842, 0166 and 0133 are unknown, emerging clusters of cyber threat activity. One of the groups is associated with MOIS-linked group EUROPIUM. They initially gained access to the Government Systems in May 2021 through a vulnerability on an unpatched SharePoint Server (CVE-2019-0604).
After executing arbitrary code to implant web shells on the unpatched Server, this allowed DEV-0861 to upload, download, delete, rename and execute commands giving them options to run as a specific user. With this exploitation they have the ability to use anyones user information located in the Government Systems. That's only the tip of the Iceberg, if I should say. Becuase, the group was able to move from side to side within the network using Impacket and Remote Desktop Clients.
One of the forementioned groups DEV-0166 was able to leverage Json.exe to exfiltrate emails after DEV-0842 deployed ransomeware(which is a type of malware that threatens to publish the victims personal info or permanently block access until ransome is paid)and a wiper( which is a class of malware intended to erase the HD of the computer it infects, maliciously deleting data and programs) back in .
It seems most of these groups go after Government Agancies to gain access to credentials that were otherwise known by not all but maybe a few employees. One way that this could of been prevented and going forward is by encrypting access so that credentials cannot be stolen or phished. Doing so would give back control of organizational data (access encryption and segmentation).

    New APT targets telcos, ISP's and universities in the Middle East and Africa

Dubbed the name 'Metador' by Security researchers at SentinelOne Inc. Never before seenadvanced threat actor mainly targeting telecomms, ISPs and Universities in several countries in the Middle East and Africa. Highly sophisticated and aware of security operations, Metador deployed intricate countermeasures that bypassed security solutions and were able to deploy malware platforms directly into memory. 'Metador', was using variants of two longstanding Windows malware platforms, with indications of a Linux implant as well.
Researchers discovered 'Metador' while going though a 'Magnet of Threats' which, is a term used to describe as highly desirable targets that has multiple threat actors regularly cohabitating on the same victim machine. Researchers found nearly 10 known threat actors of Chinese and Iranian origin. In going through these layers of threats, researchers found an unusual infection which they had previously not seen. 'Metadors' origin is unknown but evidence was found that the developers and operators speak English and Spanish, wiht cultural references to British pop punk lyrics and Argentinian political cartoons.
With the limited number of intrusions and long-term access to targets, it is suggested that the groups main purpose and motive is espionage. The deployment of this technically complexed malware and its active development, hints to a well resourced group able to acquire, maintain and extend-multiple frameworks. Metador's modular framework allows operators to choose between multi execution flows. This execution flow combined a WMI which is a Windows Management Instrumentation API which provides a toolkit for managing devices and applications in a network of windows based computers., with a PowerShell script that can execute a payload from a remote location, with an unusual LOLbin, a Microsoft Console Debugger, called 'metaMain'.
This metaMain is a backdoor implant to decrypt a modular framework called 'Mafalda' into memory. 'Mafalda' is described as flexible and interactive and supports more than 60 commands. 'Mafalda' comes from an old Argentinian comic strip with the main character is a girl named Mafalda, who is concerned about the goings on in the world. The collective abilities to track these actors has been inconsistent and not one has been caught. Knowing that there are man made threats out there that can still wreak havoc on humanity and todays developers may not be able to solve, is a very scary and kind of motivating thing that made me realize that I should always think and prepare for the unknown.s Developers of security
